Source: Free Stock Charts 2020
# Twiter Sentiment Analysis of Tweets mentioning SPY 

Our group of Data Scientists scholars has the objective of evaluating Twitter’s user’s sentiment on the stock market by obtaining tweets about the S & P 500 index and its derivatives. The S & P 500 represents the biggest 500 publicly traded companies in the United States making up a great portion of the stock market with a total of 15 trillion in market cap. We will be utilizing financial terms both formal and informal to capture users’ sentiments on the index.

The steps to obtain relatable data will be to utilize an API from Twitter that would allow us to withdraw specific tweets from its servers. We will be obtaining tweets utilizing a familiar symbol in Fintwit (Financial Twitter) such as $ (Dollar Sign). The dollar sign is used to represent financial instruments such as the S & P 500 (Ex. $SPY, $SPX). Because our goal is to capture sentiment, we will be using other financial terms such as “bullish”, “bearish”, “long”, “short”, “options call”, “options put”, among other terms to identify the user's sentiment on the S & P 500.

We consider our project of big relevance to the public due to the importance the United States stock market has in the economy of the US and the world. Additionally, the stock market is currently at an interesting place where it has recently reached all-time highs. Could twitter determine if the market will continue its bullish trend? Will it predict the start of a bear market? We hope that with our project’s outcome we can collect actionable information to be used by traders.
